---
layout: post
title:      "Ruby on Rails, Destiny 2, and Global Pandemics"
date:       2020-05-22 04:58:45 +0000
permalink:  ruby_on_rails_destiny_2_and_global_pandemics
---

Oh yes. It's time. Let's talk about life for the next few minutes together. The past few months, heck, the entirety of 2020, has been a whirlwind of nothing short of insanity. It's been incredibly difficult for me to maintain some sort of positive stasis during the quarantine event, even though I would self-classify as a rather chronic introvert. It has given me some perspective on how social interaction plays its part in the regular maintenance of my mental health, and undoubtably something I won't disregard going forward. That being said, it's also been *really fun*. I've had the good fortune of being allowed to not only keep my day job, but transition to a completely work-from-home schedule. It's given me back the time in the day that was wasted previously. I've spent a great deal of my time talking about topics, both intellectually stimulating and simply silly, with my partner with whom I live. She has been a great quarantine buddy, along with our two cats who constantly keep things interesting (read: crazy). This quarantine business occurred right around the middle of my Ruby on Rails module. The craziness is still going strong, and I am pleased and relieved to say that I have passed my assessment at the time of writing this blog. I won't discuss the technical aspect of my project much here, as I have been doing nothing but that recently. I'd rather use this post as an opportunity to discuss the lifecycle of the project: from architecture, to planning, and finally execution.

### I understand why software architects are usually *senior* developers

This was a new experience for me. Okay, not wholly new. But planning out a CLI application, or even a simple Sinatra based project, is comparing apples to oranges here. With previous projects, I found the flow to be more designing and coding wrapped together in a damp towel of ambition. The towel is damp, because I really shouldn't be doing that. To be able to shoot for the moon, you have to first pick the moon to shoot at, right? This was grounds for poor habit development. But as a novice to the web application design, I suppose I had to learn this the hard way. At least that's what I tell myself.... 

I should give myself a little credit. I created a nice looking *hand drawn* schema for all models and their respective associations. I spent time considering how these models would interact, and what would be necessary to implement my idea without junking up my database with redundant information. However, following through with my ideas of grandeur did not go completely according to plan. I had to spend a lot of time weighing my options for decisions, as with software architecture, there is no *right answer*. Not even a best answer. But after the dust had settled, I came away with a lesson regarding the importance of planning my application, and a new way of approaching decision making. 

### Is it just me, or does COVID-19 seem like a reaaaally long bad dream

My motivation, in all aspects, has been on the fritz lately. It has convinced me at times to second guess some of the things I love to do. However, what keeps me in check, is that my motivation to do *all*, of these things that I love has been affected. Sometimes, I feel like the luckiest programmer in the world. I am privileged to be in the position that I am. I have all of my necessities covered with room to spare. I go to bed with feelings of content, and wake up the next morning with acute existential dread. Okay, that's a little heavy. Reeling it back in now. It can be a struggle to keep your eye on the ball when a large change in lifestyle happens. So if you're feeling the same way, I hope you now know you're not alone. This will not last forever if we maintain responsibility as a global community, and we'll be back to our regularly scheduled shenanigans in no time. It's given me a lot to think about, including my life and the people I hold dearly.

### Final Section. I promise. This one's about video games.

I have been playing a lot of a new game recently. It goes by the name of Destiny 2, created by Bungie. The same folks who brought you the genre-defining Halo series. It's a 'looter-shooter', which is right up your alley if first-person reaction based mechanics and finding exciting rare shinys get you all excited. It focuses its content around several people working together toward a common goal, or multiplayer. I have had the great opportunity recently to join a group of supportive and diverse people who play the game regularly. It is a irregularity for me to put myself in front of a group of strangers, but I couldn't be more glad that I did. We get together several times a week to do challenging events that require tight teamwork and cooperation. It gives everyone a sense of trust, as it's important to be able to rely on your team to move forward. It builds humility, and a great way to learn that failure is a powerful tool within any paradigm. They have helped me improve at the game, and helped make these times of isolation much more manageable. 


